README.md, before:

# BioDivAppConfigEditor
This project is part of a master thesis at the University of Applied Sciences Bremen.

How to build this Project
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Install Maven (version > 3.0) and don't forget to set M2_HOME and JAVA_HOME system variables to the right  path.
2. Toolchain:

   2.1 Install node.js    
   2.2 Execute the command "nmp install -g bower" to install bower  
   2.3 Execute the command "nmp install -g grunt-cli" to install grunt
3. Execute "mvn spring-boot:run" to start the project via maven

   or execute "mvn spring-boot:run" -Pprod to start the project in production mode (notice that the 
   
   or execute "mvn package" to create a war file (found in target folder) 
   
   or execute "mvn package .Pprod" to create a production war file (found in target folder) 
   
    - To run a war file in production mode the corresponding spring profile has to be aktivated 
   Exampel: "java -jar jhipster-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war --spring.profiles.active=prod"
   or:  Add -Dspring.profiles.active=prod to your JAVA_OPTS when running your server

If anything goes wrong, please go through each of the steps above again. If there are still problems try to find 
the "node_modules" folder and delete it. Afterwards repeat the steps above once again.

For frontend development you might want to run the project in development mode and use the command "grunt serve" 
on the project folder. It will start a separate instance of the frontend with enabled browser sync. Browser sync 
allows faster development because it takes care of reloading changed files into the browser.

Commit message:

problems with node.js during build

README.md, after:

# BioDivAppConfigEditor
This project is part of a master thesis at the University of Applied Sciences Bremen.

How to build this Project
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Install Maven (version > 3.0) and don't forget to set M2_HOME and JAVA_HOME system variables to the right  path.
2. Toolchain:

   2.1 Install node.js    
   2.2 Execute the command "nmp install -g bower" to install bower  
   2.3 Execute the command "nmp install -g grunt-cli" to install grunt
3. Execute "mvn spring-boot:run" to start the project via maven

   or execute "mvn spring-boot:run" -Pprod to start the project in production mode (notice that the 
   
   or execute "mvn package" to create a war file (found in target folder) 
   
   or execute "mvn package .Pprod" to create a production war file (found in target folder) 
   
    - To run a war file in production mode the corresponding spring profile has to be aktivated 
   Exampel: "java -jar jhipster-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.war --spring.profiles.active=prod"
   or:  Add -Dspring.profiles.active=prod to your JAVA_OPTS when running your server

If anything goes wrong, please go through each of the steps above again. If there are still problems try to find 
the "node_modules" folder and delete it. Afterwards repeat the steps above once again.

It looks like Node.JS changed something. If there are multiple errors concerning node-gyp during the build please use the command "nom update node-gyp". Afterwards the maven build should be working again.

For frontend development you might want to run the project in development mode and use the command "grunt serve" 
on the project folder. It will start a separate instance of the frontend with enabled browser sync. Browser sync 
allows faster development because it takes care of reloading changed files into the browser.
